So welcome to the Data Science Lab, everybody. My name is Libby. I'm a data community manager
here at Posit, and I am joined by my co-host, Isabella Velazquez. Isabella, please say hello.
Hi, everyone. Thanks for joining us.
We are so excited to be joined today by Edgar Ruiz. Edgar, he is a maintainer of the mall
package, which we will be talking about today. Edgar, would you like to say hello?
Hi, everyone. Thank you for joining. Also, thank you for being here in such cold weather,
and hopefully we can show some cool stuff that y'all can use.
If you have not used the mall package, and we are hopefully sticking links to everything in
the Discord chat. We will in just a second. We are talking about a package that allows you to use
Ellmer to connect to a variety of LLMs and then apply LLMs to your data in a programmatic way,
which means like, hey, I have this column of text maybe, and I want to transform it somehow
or classify it, translate it, whatever that is with an LLM, and then have a column that represents
the output from the LLM. This is amazing for me, because when I first started using LLMs,
I was like, okay, but how do I use this, right? To me, it was just like this is a chat thing.
How do I use this programmatically if I want to apply it to my data, and the mall package
abstracted away all the difficulty for me, and I think that that's great. So, I'm going to go ahead
and share my screen and just walk through a Quarto doc. I have dark mode or semi-dark mode
on my Positron right now. If this is hard for anybody to see, can you please let me know,
or if it's too small for you to see, please, please, please let me know. I'm going to take
a look at the chat here to see. Okay, let me know. Edgar, I would love it if you could give
us an intro, your own maintainer intro, on what the mall package is and why it's helpful before
I dive into live coding. Yeah, so this is an introduction of an idea that occurred to me when
I was looking at some output from LLMs some time back, and I saw that being able to ask it,
is this text positive or not, was actually pretty straightforward. Even a locally installed
LLM would actually do a pretty decent job at it, and that's kind of what got it started because
at the time that I started writing mall, because of how fast everything has evolved,
year and a half, year ago, companies were reticent about sending data into the cloud,
if it was a cloud provider for the LLM. Now, that's not as bad. More companies are doing that.
So at the time, most companies wanted to keep it local, and it looked like something such as a
LLM model was actually going to work well that could be installed locally. So I figured I'd start
doing that. So one thing that I can ask folks here today is if you start seeing things that we could
actually do better or add, I kind of talked through several different things like the sentiment,
classify, extract. Also, you can do your own custom one, and Libby will explain more about
what that does. If you see other ones that we could possibly add, that'd be great. Also, the
code is open, and it really boils down to a simple prompt that I'm using to run recursively
over your dataset. So improvements and prompts and things like that are always welcome.
The GitHub, the link to the GitHub repo is in the website, so please feel free to reach out.
All right, perfect. So what Edgar was mentioning, sentiment analysis, text summarizing,
classification of text, extraction of text, translation, and binary verification, true,
false. These are all built into MOL, and then there's also a custom. So what I'm going to do
is run through some code where I show you what it looks like to get this connected to Elmer,
to an actual LLM, and then what it looks like to use some of these on your data. If you click each
of these, it will take you down to examples of them, right? So we have sentiment analysis,
which happens with a function called LLM sentiment. For each of these, there is... I'm
sorry that I keep having this pop up here. I'm going to keep closing it, but ignore it unless
you can't see it, unless only I can see it. We can't see it.
You can't see it, that's good. I have a pop up. If you see me stop and my brain is spinning like
a wheel on the Mac screen, that's because I'm closing something that Zoom's popping up every
time someone enters this room. Okay, so for each of these functions, there is a vectorized version
as well. These functions are going to be applied to a column in a data frame, but if you wanted
to apply them to just a vector, like, hey, I have a vector named this, and it contains a vector of
text, then you can use the vectorized version. So for each of these, there's also, you'll notice,
a Python tab up here. That's because we can work on the data frame level. This would be a data
frame called reviews, and then we can use the LLM.sentiment function on our column called
review. So if you are wondering how things work in Python as you're watching this, please don't
fret. Edgar's going to share the Python code after I share the R code, okay? Okay, I'm going to head
back over to Discord, make sure I'm not missing anything. Nora says she needs to learn NLP. Yeah,
learn NLP. I love NLP. NLP, by the way, that was my soapbox, still has a place. Big time.
Oh. I love it. Edgar, what?
Can I say something real quick about the NLP thing? That's the other thing that
I noticed that the local LLM was actually doing real well, even though it may take a bit longer
to recursively go through a dataset. It's kind of like you're paying for the time that it will
take you to develop your own NLP. Yeah, it's a tax, right? It takes longer, yes, to run,
but you didn't have to spend the time doing the NLP yourself and tokenizing your words,
and then doing all this other analysis you have to do. So, that's the other reason why
this exists. So, as you see the performance, of course, it's going to be slower, but
let me see, it's a tax, right? Yeah. It's also not, I think, as verifiable.
NLP, I feel like, is much more predictable. In the chat, someone asked, what's the difference
between using mall for these NLP tasks versus traditional or classical NLP? The difference is
really just that you are using an LLM versus using traditional NLP methods, which might be
like named entity recognition or sentiment analysis using a lexicon, a defined lexicon,
or let's say you might be doing something that I love to do in NLP, which is sort of like a
power analysis. That means that you are creating this lexicon or this database of
maybe words or phrases that indicate certain things, and then you are basically using code
and math to compare the text that you are working on to what you have in your database of what is a
positive word or a negative word or a neutral word or a powerful word or, you know, NLP has its own
topic, but we'll head into our live coding now because we're 14 minutes in and we better do that
or we're going to get roasted. Please light a candle in the chat for me because I am about to
live code with LLMs on the internet and we know that something could go wrong. If it does go wrong,
please give me some grace and have patience. So what I will say at the top of the script is if
you have not already installed mall and Elmer, those are the two that you are going to really,
really need. I have a little install.packages for you if you would like, and I also have this repo
for you and I don't know if anybody has shared this repo in the chat, so let me. Oh, I can go
ahead. Can you do that? Okay. Yeah, of course. That's great. It's like the one repo that I didn't
get a link to is the one that I'm using so that you can see it. So I'm going to go ahead and run
this chunk, which is just going to load Elmer and mall and tidyverse, and then if you have access to
a commercial LLM, you need to make sure that your API key is in your .environ file or your .env file
so that Elmer can recognize it and use it. I am going to be using Anthropic Model today,
but it's not through an API key in the same way that you would use it. I'm using it through AWS
Bedrock. So what I'm going to also show you is Olama, which is so much more accessible. It's a
local LLM that you install on your machine. You can go to olama.com slash download and I will
stick that in the chat. And Corey had just said, can mall be used with a local LLM? Yep, absolutely.
So you can use it with Olama and what I'm going to do is just show you that I already have Olama
installed and it's running. I don't know if you can see the very top of my screen up here,
but on my Mac menu bar, there is a little symbol that looks like Jar Jar Binks to me,
but it's definitely, definitely Olama. And here it is. And I just asked it a question. I said,
tell me a joke. And it said, here's one. What do you call a fake noodle and impasta?
So Olama is up and running on my system. And down here, you can see there's this little model
selection for Olama. I have 3.2 installed. I will show you in a minute how I got that installed and
pulled down and like have my system recognize it. But just know that you can
choose from a bunch of other models. I'm going to let Edgar hop in here and just mention
the size caveat on some of these, because with local LLMs, you're pulling them down onto your
machine to run them. And some of these might be quite large. Yes, exactly. That's exactly the
point. The issue is that these have to run in memory. So you may have a hard drive that's big
enough, but you still need enough RAM to run these things. LLAMA 3.2 is wonderful because it's very
generalized. Going back to the NLP thing, you're kind of limited on the amount of training data
you'll have to do your own NLP. But with LLAMA, you have so many more billions of tokens you'll
have on text. But the trade-off is that it takes a lot of space. So with LLAMA 3.2, the latest is
two gigabytes. The latest LLAMA, which is four, is actually 67 gigabytes on the smaller side. So
that's the thing. Unless you have a very nice machine, it's probably going to be one of those
smaller ones that you'll need. Yeah, 3.2 is what I recommend. Also, as time goes by, more folks
publish models that are more specialized. You may want to use this in a very specific field.
There may be some that are like that. So definitely follow the LLAMA.com website and
you can search for your own type of model that you may want to use. But at this point, LLAMA,
to me, is the better one. If you all have used another one, then I would like to recommend. Also,
please do. Yeah, let us know. So I'm going to close this and talk about the OLLAMA-R package
really quickly. So the OLLAMA-R package allows you to pull down OLLAMA models and have them
recognized on your machine very quickly. For example, I was able to run OLLAMA-R pull and just
give it LLAMA 3.2 as my model. And then once that's done, and I'm not going to run it because
it already is, I can run this line of code right here that's asking to test the connection to
OLLAMA. And I've got my status 200, which means all good. And it's also telling me that the body
is that it's in memory and it's 17 bytes. Okay, so let's head over to do something very important
here, which is something I actually forgot to do the first time I did this. But it is now in the
repo for you to set a seed so that these random samples are reproducible. What I'm doing here is
collecting a few data sets that are full of tweets. This is from one of the Kaggle data
sets that's tweets. It's linked in the readme of the repo. So if you would like to go download that,
download that tweets.csv. It is also in the repo as data right here. But if you want to play with
it on your own, that's how you can do it. And what I've done is I'm taking a sample. So I have a
tweet sample that's just 25 random samples of English language tweets. Then I have a random
sampling of Jimmy Fallon tweets. I like Jimmy Fallon tweets because they're sort of a mix up of
really neutral like announcement tweets that are like announcing a guest on a show or
something. And then also personal tweets from him. And then I have a random sampling of Katy Perry
tweets because I'm going to talk about safety and curse words. And Katy Perry sure does like to curse
on Twitter. Or at least when this data set was taken. What I'm going to do next is I'm going to
set up Elmer. This is not Maul yet. This is still Elmer. It's very important to realize that Elmer
and Maul go together. You don't use Maul without Elmer's support. And it's going to give you the
ability to access those models that you are then going to use programmatically. I'm going to do
something that Elmer wasn't really built to do. Sorry, Edgar. I'm like slightly breaking it.
I'm going to create two different chat objects. I'm going to use Elmer chat AWS bedrock to set up
a chat with Anthropic so I can run this. And you can see over here it created a value, right? This
value is just a chat object. And then I'm going to create chat Olama. And I'm going to tell it the
model is 3.2. So when I run both of those, I now have a chat object. And then I can use a Maul
function to switch between those different Elmer chats. So Elmer was really meant to, I think,
use one chat per session. And so you'll see later on when I call it, I do something special to try
to avoid like a caching issue. But this right here is Elmer's providers. These are all of the
different providers that you can use with Elmer to power your Maul work. It's a pretty big list.
You can go straight to chat Anthropic without going through AWS bedrock, obviously, because
if you have an API key, that'll get you there. A lot of people have been asking about Azure,
opening through Azure. It's there. Support is there. Cloudflare, DeepSeek, all the things.
Here's our chat Olama that we used. If you would like to figure out how to set these up,
you could go click it. And then it's going to walk you through this. And actually, this is
really, really easy. I think the first time I ran through these instructions, it took me about
four minutes to set up Olama and have it running. So highly recommend starting with Olama. I think,
Edgar, you said Gemini is also an option for something that is a more like commercial style
model, but that's also a free option. Yeah, that's right. As long as you have
API access and a lot of companies are going Gemini right now. So that may be one to try.
I was going to say something real quick, if I can. I just want to like right now,
we're talking a lot about Elmer and not mall. Elmer, I went ahead and created the backend for
Elmer inside mall because initially it didn't have it. It was only Olama. So that is easier for you
to be able to connect to different kinds of providers, right? That way mall didn't have to
itself have a code to be able to connect to the different ones. Elmer is my gateway,
right? So I can just focus on the main stuff that mall does. So that's what we're talking about,
two packages. And Elmer does a great job at this kind of integration as Libby's going to show.
So I just want to mention that. No, yeah. And I want to hop in and answer David
Onder's question here, which was what kind of specs should I realistically have to make good
use of these models? And he said he had 64 gigs of RAM, more than enough. 64 gigs of RAM is more
than enough. You would be fine with 16 gigs of RAM, I think for 3.2. It's not as big as you think.
But also when you go to the Olama download and you look at the different models, each of the models
actually has like two or three different size versions of that model to install. So go
take a look at them and see what you would need for each of those. All right. So I have created
my chat objects for both Anthropic and Olama. Yours might look something more like this, like
chat, chat open AI, and then model equals. Don't worry if you do not have something that looks
like this. This is very specific to my setup on my machine for work. Okay. So I need to tell mall
I have this Elmer chat object. I want to use it. I want to use Olama. So I'm going to run
use Olama. Actually, I feel like I should throw a .cache in there. So I'm going to do that.
This is me trying to stop a cache problem from building up because I'm trying to break
the Elmer package here. So I will do this and tell mall I want to use Elmer on the back end. Yes.
And then my LLM session, my model is using Llama 3.2. We're all good to go. Now what I'm going to
do is I'm going to apply the LLM sentiment function to my content variable. So let's go
look at my tweets sample. This is the data set that I'm going to use right here. If we take a
look at it here in the console, I only have two columns, author and content. Author is a Twitter
screen name and Twitter handle and content is just the contents of the tweet as a string.
So I'm passing the content variable right here to the LLM sentiment and then I'm giving it some
extra optional things. So let's go over to mall really quickly and we'll go to the sentiment
function here. The R version because that's what I'm using. And we're going to go to its
R reference page so we can see what we have as options here. We've already given it the
dot data because I'm piping it in. Remember when you were piping something in, that pipe,
it takes everything on the left hand side of the pipe and feeds it to the next function as the very
first argument. That means that this is satisfied. Then I'm giving it my column. That's that content
column. And then you can give it options. This is like, hey, these are the options that I want to
accept as output from the LLM. Mall is very smart and if it gets output that doesn't fit that,
it will coerce it to NA for you. So take a look at that. And then pred name, most important one
to me. I don't really love the dot sentiment dot pred dot whatever. I like naming it something
specific, especially because I like to compare different models. So I'm going to change this.
And then you also have the option of an additional prompt. I wanted to ask you,
Edgar, is this like a system prompt or is this an additional individual prompt?
This gets attached to the main prompt that's being sent. So if you, for example, something
like this, you can say if the person says these specific words, then consider it neutral or
whatever. So you can add some extra feedback to make it more fine-tuned and better.
But I am not going to use that. What I am going to do is just say, hey, here are your options,
positive, negative, and neutral. And name my output column sentiment llama. So I can run this.
And if everyone has lit their candles correctly, my code will run. A little progress bar at the
bottom here. Love that. Aha, there we go. It was created. So I can go look at my
tweet sample sentiments, which is right here. Click this button to get a data view.
And here we are. I now have an extra column over here of sentiment. This is only 25 rows, y'all.
If you have a enormous data set, please be prepared to wait. And please be prepared for
your laptop to go for like 10 minutes while it figures out what it's doing. Because it really
is your machine just like cooking, okay? So I had a question in Discord. Are you limited to those
three options, positive, negative, neutral? I could give it whatever I wanted. So you could do
something, yes, like very positive, positive, neutral, negative. I would suggest giving it
instructions about what each of those things means, right? Yeah, that would be important.
Like if you're deviating from that kind of basic three structure or even two structure,
I would let it know what you mean by very positive. We will see in just a minute. I'm
going to compare the outputs of olama and anthropic. And you can be the judge on how
well each of them did and whether or not they would have been coded the way you would as a human.
Libby. Yeah. I think Javier is also asking if it can return the prediction probabilities,
which doesn't because it's not part of the prompt. And Elmer, like if you go into the
articles themselves, there's a way that you can actually build a prompt like that where you say,
you know, give me a percentage you think that you can kind of make it do that. But it's not,
I don't think you'll be able to get probabilities properly as if it was like an actual LLP model.
Also, while I have the floor, I just want to mention real quickly,
because of the time, how long it takes and know that that's what we have the cache option.
So like if you're running the same, you know, QMD or same script, and you just refine in it,
and you're going to get the exact same result. If you were to run this, let's say LLM sentiment,
then it works much faster the second time because it's automatically caching results.
Into a temporary folder that was faster for you, you don't have to rerun everything. So that's why
that cache exists. Just want to mention that. Yeah, that's if you want to save some time.
That's why I'm giving it the cache null. I really don't want it to build up in there.
We had some questions in the chat, not all of them I can answer. So Abdullah had asked a rule
of thumb set of specs for a machine. So local LLMs are practically feasible. And I mentioned that if
you have at least 16 gigs of RAM, I think that you are you will do okay with something like 3.2
from Olama. I am not a technical spec expert. Don't listen to me. I would have some people add
in the chat what their specs are on their machine and how their machine does when they run things.
I have found that my machine does okay. But your mileage may vary based on all kinds of factors.
Brent Pfeiffer had asked, would that be in the additional prompt area where you're defining
things? Yes. Where you're giving it information on like what extra negative is or extra positive is
or in between is. And then Simon had asked, let's see. Ah, Simone, you had asked, you could use the
vitals package to compare models, right? The vitals package is awesome. That's Simon Couch's
package, right, Isabella? I have never used vitals, but you could. And then can we use LLM
Studio instead of Olama? David, I do not know. I'd have never used LLM Studio. If anybody has used a
third party LLM management system, let us know in the chat. That's not something that I have played
with yet. All right. So let's go ahead and switch our models over to Anthropic. That means I'm using
the mall LLM underscore use to switch from that chat Olama to chat Anthropic. And again, using
the cache option there to say, hey, don't fill up my cache. And then what we'll do is we'll run
that exact same code with LLM sentiment, same code. The only thing that's different is I'm
changing the column name that I'm adding to sentiment Anthropic. So I'm adding it back to
that same new data frame that I had created up here. So I can run this. Let's see how quickly
this runs with Anthropic. In all of my testing, it's taken the same amount of time, almost exactly,
for Anthropic to run versus Olama, by the way. So now I can, it's good to read all of these many
things I have open. We will go open tweets sample sentiment one more time. And this will allow us to
look at a comparison here between these two. The one on the left is Olama. The one on the right is
Anthropic. And we can see that they don't agree for all of these, right? So this is Olama. And
Olama is coding, for example, this is negative when all it says is Mondays and fur babies.
Mondays could be negative for sure. Like Olama, you might be right. But Anthropic coded that as
positive. We have another disagreement on the second one that just says tomorrow Toronto
and a URL. And that's it. I've noticed that Olama frequently codes something that has a URL
in it as negative. And I don't know why. But that seems to happen a lot. Whereas I think that
Anthropic is more correct here that this is a neutral tweet. None of us know the context of
this. We can't see what that URL goes to. And if there was a photo, we can't see it.
So let's head back over to our code. And let's look at our agreement here.
What I'm doing is I am looking at this sample of sentiments, which I just showed you here.
This is so that I can render the document. And you can look at it as a PDF if you want to.
And then I calculate the agreement. So 0.68, 68% of the time, they agreed.
Otherwise, they did not match. This is something where I really recommend you go through and
review. We all know that LLMs aren't perfect. Neither is NLP, by the way. If you code something
through NLP, you might look through it and disagree as well, even though you wrote the
underlying structures of your NLP model. Let's head over to summarization because we
are about halfway through. I want to make sure that we don't have any major questions. Let's see.
I see a question from Abdullah. How do you iterate and validate the model? Let's say you
don't agree with how the model classified things. How do you measure accuracy? Do you take a random
sample of results and let a human evaluate it? This is a process question that will depend on
how much you want to verify. I am playing with tweets. I'm just going to visually verify,
cherry pick, and go based off of vibes, right? But if I was working in a research setting where
I really needed things to be right, I think that I would probably run things through an LLM. And
then I would set up a verification system to have several different human beings run through
and validate whether or not this was correct. So they will not have to read a tweet and decide
whether or not it is positive, negative, or neutral. They will just have to agree or disagree
with the model, what the model had coded it. And if it was wrong, they might recode it. And then
I would have human beings reviewing those results. So depending on the way that you
do things and how big of a project this is and what the stakes are for the project,
that'll be a choice that's up to you. Maybe some people can share in the chat
how they have validated things. Simon Couch's blog is a great place to go for all things LLM
verification, by the way. I would go read through that. He's going to be much better at that than I
am. OK, Isabella, can you stop me if there are any other really big questions? But if they're not,
OK, I'm going to show you some summarizing really quickly. We're going to go through this one a
little bit faster. I'm switching over to LLAMA 3.2 again. And I'm going to use Jimmy Fallon
tweets this time. And what I'm going to do is create an extra column in this new tweets
underscore Jimmy Fallon underscore summary data set called Summary LLAMA. And the extra thing I've
given it this time is a max words 10. Now, LLM's never listened to us. It's frequently not going
to stop at 10 or give me less than 10. But a lot of times this can help stop it be too wordy.
So let's head over and just redo this with Anthropic so that we can compare these.
All right, here we go. Anthropic is running again pretty quickly for a summarization task.
But also, this is only 25 rows. Let's go look at it. Go over to my data here. Check out my
tweets Jimmy Fallon underscore summary and open it up here. All right, here's my here's my content.
My friend slept in our walk-in pantry. When he laid down, his feet would stick out the door.
Hashtag my first apartment. Okay, LLAMA's on the left.
Crazy and quite concerning living situation for a first apartment. Not wrong, technically. Let's
see what the Anthropic summary is. Friend slept in tiny pantry, feet stuck outdoor.
That is much more accurate to me, that Anthropic summary, right?
Let's look at one more.
Always great to see Mets Bucket Hat Guy, a.k.a. Mike DiCenzo.
DiCenzo.
The Llama Summary, Mike DiCenzo is a New York Mets fan Twitter personality.
Not wrong!
Met's bucket hat guy spotted at event probably more correct
So again, we have this like Olama is not technically wrong, but is maybe not super helpful and then anthropic is slightly more helpful
You're gonna have to go through and review whether or not
This is good enough for you, right if you're doing a summary task with Olama locally
Is this good enough? If not, you might want to attempt to lean on a more commercial LLM like anthropics models
By the way, I'm using SONNET 4.5 just because I think I forgot to say that even though it was on screen
I'm pausing for the chat. Okay. I don't see any major golf flags, which denote our questions
so I'm gonna head back over and
We just did this. We just took a look at what they were
Now I'm going to go through really quickly because we have 20 minutes left and I want to stop talking
And hand this over to show Python code
What if you don't like those standard functions, what if you want to do your own thing?
Let me show you how to make a multi-stepped prompt using the anthropic model specifically
What I'm gonna do is look at Katy Perry's tweets and have it
Classified for me whether or not they are safe or dangerous and I am going to define safe or dangerous
Really simply here and I'm also going to tell it to ignore URLs because I've noticed that LLMs
Just get like confused by out by URLs sometimes. So I'm going to say ignore URLs and usernames
I'm also going to tell it safe text contains no slurs or curse words and
I'm going to tell it assess whether the text is safe or dangerous and then return one word either safe or dangerous
I am saving this in a prompt object
It's just a string it's not going anywhere yet. It's just a string object saved as prompt
I'm going to switch back over to
Anthropic, which I think I did before. I think anthropic is the last model I used. Yeah. Okay, so I'm gonna leave that
and
then
I'm gonna go through my sampling of Katy Perry tweets
For my prompt option in the LLM underscore custom mall function
I'm gonna give it my prompt and
Then I'm also going to give it what my valid responses are only safe and dangerous
I want it to course and everything else to na and then I'm going to name my new column that it's creating safety
Underscore anthropic. So let's create this see how long it takes to run through with that custom prompt
About the same time as it's taken everything else at a larger scale. The differences in time are going to be much more apparent
And let's go over to tweet safety look at it with our data viewer and positron
And oh, wow, we do not have the correct author here. Did I use the right?
Data set. Oh, wait, I need the new one that I created. I
Need tweets safety. Did I do that one? Oh
What have I done here? Y'all help me
tweet sample oh
We're you we're looking at safety of just like regular tweets first, I forgot I did this they're all safe
The random sampling that we took which is like all kinds of people Rihanna Kim Kardashian Katy Perry
Ariana Grande, they're all pretty safe if we're looking through these
I don't see anything that leaps out to me as something that I would have wanted it to flag as dangerous
Does anybody else see anything I do not see anything no slurs no curse words
Okay, was I smart
did I
Do Katy Perry's tweets? Yes
Totally random assortment not random. I went and found bad ones
Here's what we're gonna do
We are going to apply that same exact prompt to Katy Perry tweets
We're gonna create a data frame called tweets Katy Perry safety
It's working a little bit harder on Katy Perry here, we're at 89%
Did everybody light their candle
Should I should
Okay, let me check the chat for questions y'all
There is one question about why use paste if it is all text
Remember what line that was on?
Ah, that was me creating my prompt up here. I
used paste
because this is
exactly taken from the docs for mall and this is just what what was in the docs in mall and that's all I knew
So I'm just going to copy and paste
For mall and this is just what what was in the docs in mall and that's all I did
Oh, that's what the question I couldn't figure out where the question was from yeah
You can just put this all together
What paste is going to do is put this together with a space between each one you can do paste
Zero and have no spaces like you're in control
But having it like this is nice because it allows you to look at it line by line
And understand what exactly you are telling your llm to do. I do like the visual separation of it
Um, yes, dan had asked are these recent x no, they're tweets. They're literal tweets. This is from
the before times y'all
Um, the data set is on kaggle. It's the tweets data set and isabella had shared a link
Okay
No more questions
Isabella lit a candle for us and it finished coincidence you decide. Okay, let's go look at
Our
Katie perry safety. Do we dare look at this live on the internet? We're gonna do it
Okay, katie perry's tweets they have been classified as safe or dangerous this first one is safe
A visual explanation to what people in florida are in surrounding areas experiencing send them prayers looks pretty safe
uh
row three here
Has it has decided this is unsafe and it does have a curse word in it
I think that that is great. Good job anthropic. You did a good job
Okay, so before I move on I want to say that prompt
Took iteration. It did not work the first like eight times. I did it. It didn't do what I wanted it to do
I had to iterate and iterate and iterate until my prompt
Was going to do what I wanted it to do reliably
also
Um llms are not deterministic
I could run it
One time and run it again, and it could you know, give me a different answer. So
Use llms for things like this for anything at your own risk here
Um, all right, we ran that
I also just for funsies because everybody likes numbers
Looked at my random sampling of 18 katie perry tweets to see what proportions were safe and unsafe
You know about 83 percent safe not bad
I wanted to also before I hand this over for the last 15 minutes to edgar here talk about an elmer
Not mall an elmer function, which is pretty nice. It's the token usage function
I think this is pretty new right edgar. It tells you how many tokens you've used
So hey, here are the the models that you've used here are the number of input and output tokens
um
Notice that I don't have anything that's cached because I told it not to cash anything. I think that's
That's how that works. And then the price is in a I have seen people
Where it has access to a price for an actual commercial model. This is me using it through bedrock
So it's not the same
But I have seen people use this when it's hooked up to a commercial model where the price actually does show
Edgar, do you have anything to add about that function?
No, not really. I just noticed I haven't really used it that often
So, um, cory had asked playlist for the data science labs
Um, isabella linked it but cory and anybody else listening if you go to pos.it
Slash ds lab. You will also see the playlist linked there
It's like the registration page for our our event, but it also has a bunch of other info
All right
Yes. Yes. Yes. Did I miss any questions? I don't think I did
I'm gonna hand it over. Let's stop sharing here
To edgar and edgar is going to show you
Um what the python version of this might look like?
And hopefully if we've all written we've all lit our candles correctly, um
All right, yeah, you're his code. Yeah, there we go. There you go. All right, so
Is this uh, how long do I have? All right
um
I uh, i'm assuming that most of us here are our users
Um, so i'm going to do some explanations here like additional explanation of how it actually translates into into python
Uh, actually how mall
workflow translates into python, uh, so that's
hopefully
Can well you can also see as an r user how how it differs in this?
thing with uh python
so
mall
Unlike r where you can have like a standalone
uh package or something that um
Can modify data frames, uh in python, but specifically for the pi data community
Uh, we have something such as pandas and that has some pandas data frame for example
um, but uh, there's a new one called polars and let me see
What's it doing this? There you go
polars
You know
Yeah, just switch here. Uh polars is um
It's great. It's it's very fast. It's been it was written in rust
And this was uh, a lot of uh folks are starting to use now, in fact, it's like the recommended
Uh way of using data frames going forward. Uh, so that's um
What mall does on the python side?
Uh, i'm gonna stop sharing here
Um, let's see, sorry, uh
Okay, so um you can see yourselves, okay
Uh, we see okay, there we go
Okay, were you able to see yourselves or it just goes black goes black
Okay, good
All right. So i'll just keep it like that for now
So what it what mall is is it's an extension?
of polars and
Clarify here what extension what I mean by extension here in a second
um
All right, we started with the errors here
There you go
now
Uh, I have this uh critics
Data frame loaded is uh, these are criticisms, I guess uh or reviews about
the
Nintendo game animal crossing new horizons
so
Can be pretty favorable
um
using the
Tidy tuesday
Uh data sets
We'll have a link here so you can see essentially, uh the name and also the actual
uh text of the review
Uh, the next thing i'm going to do i'm going to import mobile field that actually notice that but go to critics and type dot
Which is kind of like dollar sign in our if I start typing llm you see that's not available
And leave me short earlier where you can tap you can see where llm dot sentiment that that's not available
Becomes available whenever you actually load the mall package
Now you should be able to see it
Which was something really interesting to me because i'm kind of new to python
So that's basically what extension means is basically that it becomes part of that
Um object that you have
Which is your data frame is an object that now is extended to be able to use
uh the functionality so now that it
It's there
uh
We have to assign it per data frame
uh, which
Back in that we're going to use as a provider and i'm going to use olama here
Um in this case i'm using the
Uh out of the box integration that I can use with olama which is the its own olama, uh library from pipi
So once you start mall, it's actually going to install this package too
And then I can just use it
And very similar to how it works where instead of piping into it just basically call the extension and run it
Now it's gonna it's gonna run
Yeah, so his little call there on line 34 is the data frame name dot llm dot sentiment so we're
Working on that data frame class
And then we're passing the text which is a variable name as a string
correct
For anybody who's not used to looking at python
That's something that kind of
Took me a while to get used to where I have to always quote the names of the of the actual columns i'm using
So it's going to be quoted
Uh, so it's running right now
Hopefully it won't take that much longer
In the meantime, we have a question from dan asking
In the documentation says in python mall is the library extension to polars
Does that mean that it does not work with pandas?
Correct you won't be able if it's a if it's an actual pandas data frame
And you don't have polars loaded. It won't recognize it. You won't be able to use it. You have to convert it
Yeah, it's taking a while
And I don't have the time
Yeah, please eight minutes left
Okay
Wait candles. Oh my gosh candles. Yeah, we need them
One more it worked last time
It worked last time
This is all i'm saying. I know it's running because if not, it would uh air out and I can see
The red square. Yeah, so everything is it's working
Uh, but i'm sure it's having all these screens open and zoom and all this stuff
Just uh making it
Chug along. Come on, you can do this
Megan gave us a very nice little explainer in there about python objects and extensions and methods and stuff
Yeah
so
Well, this is doing this i'm gonna
Hubert see you later. Some folks are having to drop for other meetings. That's okay
I want to show here. Um as laby mentioned there's um
Also, you can select arm pipe or python here and it can walk you through how you you can set that up in your
uh in your machine
Uh, all the same examples
are available
as well as the reference
Once you select python and any of the pages in the site, it'll switch everything to python. So the
Documentation will also be available for for it
um
The package itself on both sides on our and python side come with a small
data set that has three reviews and uh
You can use it as you know to test it for the first time
and uh
It's all available here, too
perfect, so
Let me know do you finally
That our python has run in our last
Yeah, I got I got the I put it on my other screen while running. Yeah, so you can see
It ran and if I were to run this again
You notice that it ran almost immediately because of the of the cache
So you can see the big advantage of having the cache is especially if you're trying to re-render things and rerun them
It's it's not going to take as long the second time
So i'm just going to reassign this variable here. So now we'll have
the new column
Which is the sentiment column?
We'll have it
available
And then i'm going to run
Uh to see if there's anything that is not possible because everybody liked it
This is the only one that kind of
Didn't like it
uh, so we can see there's some variance there as far as
Uh, not everything was classified as positive
um for this one i'm going to use the
The first one were critic reviews. This is the user reviews. I'm going to read this in
And instead of 100 i'm just going to do the top 10 for right now
And what i'm going to do here is i'm going to extract the language that the review was written in
And that should take shorter hopefully
Hopefully with only 10. So we're using llm dot extract or llm underscore extract from r
We are passing it the text variable and then the prompt that we're giving it basically is I want you to extract the language
Be it english spanish, etc. So that little part at the end that second argument is what the llm is getting as its prompt
And hopefully it does okay because we do have some reviews in all different languages
Yeah, good question. Edgar. Where is this data from?
This is uh from uh, teddy tuesday. It's 2020. Uh, may 5th
awesome
Thank you
Um, I don't think we're going to have enough time to go through all this because it's taking a while
um, one thing I wanted to show is uh
the dust translations
There's a few here that are not uh in english that could kind of showcase
Uh, the translate actually does refer to human language so you can translate from one language to the other
um, one thing that I found with llms that is so cool is that you don't need need to specify the
Uh origin language just the target language so it'll adapt to whatever language you say that you have
uh, you know
Italian spanish russian all in the original text that you want them all translated to english
You don't need to specify each one as a you know, the origin just to say I want english which is very different from other
um
translations
uh, you know
Programs or algorithms that are out there. Uh, the elements just pick it up and it does it automatically
And this is true both sides on the art and python side
Uh before we go. I just want to show you
uh how
Uh mall works with
an external
uh llm or external provider
Uh, so instead of uh elmer we're using chatless, which is the essentially the same package but for python
Um, these are this is not my package, uh or elmer for that matter elmer's is uh, at least package
uh, so
I'm basically doing the same thing. Uh
as
Let me do it on the other side. We're uh setting up a chat object
And what i'm doing here is under user reviews. I'm going to use that chat object
So now it's set up
For me to use and I can use it directly here
Now it is calling
um
uh
aws is going to uh anthropic and running it just like it ran with uh,
in our
The only thing that we don't have is the nice progress bar
But uh, it is working. So oh wow on this one said it's all negatives
This is from user reviews, yeah, but it worked it looks like but it works. Yeah, some of them are right
All right, everybody
We have a minute left
um, I wanted to
re-put the
Repo in the chat that um, we use that contains both of these files. This is just my personal repo if it's a mess
Don't judge me. This was really really fun
I'm, so glad that you hung out with us at the data science lab
I wanted to let you know that we have sarah altman joining us next week
And we just happen to have another llm one. The lab is not always about llms
I promise but we are going to be doing data analysis
With the assistance of ai which might mean data bot might mean clod code. Like what does that look like in?
February of 2026 for sarah. I hope that you'll come and join us and on thursday at the data science lab
We have alexander shock from sitel, but he's also the effective statistician
podcaster
Come with your data science career questions, especially if you are a stats flavored data science
Person, it's going to be transformative and wonderful
I hope that you have a fantastic rest of your week
Please hang out on the discord server with us if you have more questions. We are going to try to answer them
We love you, and we'll see you next time. Bye everybody